The Golden Rule Gold and HP (Two Main Resources) In TFT, the two main resources that you use are Gold (Income) and HP (Hit Points/Health). Proper, effective and correct econ is about managing both of these resources, not just one or the other. The first concept to understand is that the two resources are separate, but also connected. If you spend gold by either leveling to have a unit advantage, or rerolling to 2* your units, then you are more likely to win more rounds, thereby preserving HP. If you “spend” HP by tanking hits and losses by either not leveling and/or not rerolling, then you are more likely to lose more rounds, thereby saving up gold as you did not use any gold in the process of you playing and potentially losing those rounds. Key Point 1: If you spend gold → you preserve HP If you spend HP → you preserve gold The problem occurs when you should be spending one resource to guarantee the saving up of the other resource, but you fail to do either one and end up doing a blurry mix of both, or none at all. In this worst-case scenario, your econ will be severely crippled and you will struggle in the later stages of the match. Key Point 2: If you spend gold → you preserve HP becomes: If you spend gold, you MUST preserve HP. If you spend HP → you preserve gold becomes ⇒ If you spend HP, you MUST preserve gold. The “MUST” signifies that you have to play in a way to best guarantee that result as much as possible, otherwise you would be at a deficit (not worth). Golden Rule #1 Play for Interest gold, but when you find the timing to be stronger, use gold SURELY and EFFICIENTLY (level up to put in a meaningful synergy/roll down to hit 2*/3* to stabilize board) Golden Rule #2 If you used gold, you MUST WIN the next round(s). Gold Income Sources Basic gold Interest gold ← this is the only thing within your control Streak bonus gold (win/loss) Round win gold *Therefore, the only time to forgo the one area within your control (interest gold) is to spend gold in order to guarantee a worthwhile and justifiable GAIN. These timings depend on: Strength of your current board and what units you have on the board and bench (pairs) Strength of opponents’ boards (lobby tempo) Standard level-up timings (2-1, 2-5, 3-2, 4-2) Units on bench Units getting contested by opponents (might have to reroll earlier/faster to get the units first) Understanding these timings can be crucial in order to minimize the RNG, donkey roll, or “bleeding out and emergency rolling to survive” in stage 3, 4 playstyle (if you hit your units, top 4 or 1st, but if you don’t hit, bottom 4 or 8th) and build more consistent fundamentals where you are more “in control” of the game and pace. Why is leveling up important? It allows you to preserve and maintain health (HP). It lets you see higher cost units from shops. Therefore, it is almost always better to win streak as opposed to lose streak in stage 2 as you can preserve health (there are exceptions) 4. Set-Up for Success: Stage 1 Stage 1 Minion Drop Info If the game is a “3-component” game, then the drop variance is: 3 components + 6 gold 2 components + 12 gold 1 component + 18 gold Key Points: Each component has a value of 6 gold (Champion Duplicator = 3 gold, Lesser Champion Duplicator = 2 gold) If you receive more than 9 gold on 1-3, then you will have less items but more gold than the lobby. The blue orb dropped by the LAST MINION will ALWAYS be a COMPONENT. You can use this information to determine what situation out of the above that you are in when heading into 2-1, which helps you set the agenda for your econ: If it’s a 1-item or 2-item game (lots of gold), then unless you spent some gold by hitting lots of 2*, then by the end of 1-4 (right before first augment) you should aim to hit 10g or 20g interest. Afterward, econ using standard level-up timings and rules (unless playing reroll comp) If it’s a portal map that gives you three 1-cost units or one 3-cost unit, and you get 6 gold at 1-2, if you make 1 unit solo the minions at 1-3, you can start 10g interest at the end of 1-3. 5. Unit Strength Comparison Estimator 1 Cost 1* < 2 Cost 1* < 3 Cost 1 ≤ 1 cost 2* < 2 cost 2* ≤ 4 cost 1 ≤ 3 cost 2* It is also important to maintain the frontline/backline balance of the board so that your units can maximize their potential (2 tank units, 2 backline units - with some exceptions) Key Point: As you build up the early game, prioritize units using the following criteria in order: Units that are 2* Units that have items Traits Example: Which board is stronger? VS On the left, we have 3 Portal and 2 Vanguard traits activated, while on the right, we have 2 Shapeshifters and 2 Scholars. While some people may put in 3 Portals for the trait, 2* are stronger because you almost have twice the stats. Flat stats are stronger early in the game. Also, because Zoe is the one holding items, it is more advantageous to place units that she can benefit from, to gain most value from her being 2* and itemized. 6. Reroll Timings by Unit Cost Depending on the cost level of your MAIN CARRY, the reroll timing is different: Cost Round Level Notes 1 3-1 4 DO NOT level up 2-1. At 3-1, you will be level 4 with 8 XP, with around 30-50 gold. Reroll all your gold and try to 3* all your 1 cost main units Use the early 3 stars to preserve HP and win stage 3, potentially also stage 4 as you now accumulate interest gold and build up 2 3-2 6 Hit lvl 6 at 3-2 Reroll just a bit to either 2* your carry and other units, or just enough to stabilize board 3* all main 2 costs by 4-1 (slow roll) 3 3-5 OR 7-1 7 Hit lvl 7 at 3-5 OR 4-1 Reroll just a bit to either 2* your carry and other units, or just enough to stabilize board 3* all main 3 costs by ideally 4-5 OR 5-1 (slow roll) 4 (3-5)/4-1 OR 4-2 OR 4-5 8 Depends on the situation (covered down below in level-up timings by round) but usually you want to have at least 40g remaining after hitting lvl 8 so you have enough gold to hit your 4-cost units (exceptions: bleeding out, contested units, etc.) 7. Level Up Timings with Detailed Notes These level-up timings show the justification to hit that level, per round. Level 4 Round Tempo Notes 1-4 early 2-1 standard MUST scout, and only level if you can guarantee a win Hit 2* on 2 or more units, enabling a win streak Chance to see lvl 5 shop early If no 2*, or holding many 1-cost pairs, or aiming to do a 1-cost reroll comp, DO NOT level here. 2-2 Won 2-1, you might win next round if you level, but may lose if not Also looking to lvl 5 at 2-5 2-3 standard “Natural” level 4 Level 5 Round Tempo Notes 2-3 early Not holding any important 1-cost pairs Does not affect interest to pre-level 2-5 standard When you feel like leveling can guarantee a win or meaningful effect If you did not level 4 on 2-1 or 2-2, you will need 8 gold, so only level if you can 100% win next round 2-6 Non- standard Not really recommended to level 5 here, however: You did not level 5 on 2-5 because you thought you would lose, but you won OR you hit 2* this round and may lose if you do not level 2-7 (3-1) standard If you did not level in stage 2, look at interest situation and level Level if your board is weak (all 1*, no items) and cannot defeat Krugs Level 6 Round Tempo Notes 2-5, 2-6 special: augment Took Birthday Present, Spoils of War III, or Going Long Prismatic augments 3-1 early At least a 3W streak, and if you level 6 early, you will win next round and continue streak Must scout the other player who is also win streaking to judge strength of boards You have excess gold so that you can still hold 50g interest after leveling 6 (from gold augment or loss streaking) 3-2 standard 2-cost reroll comps hit 6 here, and reroll a bit to hit 2* and stabilize You are win streaking and are holding lots of pairs. Level to 6 and reroll 1-2 times (try to hold 30g interest) Can hold 40g interest after leveling to 6 If leveling to 6 leaves you with 30g interest after, only do it if it makes a meaningful difference for board strength/HP maintenance (key unit going in) 3-3 Non- standard Not really recommended to level 6 here, however: If you won 3-2 as level 5, then level to 6 here. 3-5 standard If your econ was bad at 3-2 (level 5 with ~40g), then wait until this round (3-5) to level to 6. If you are playing a 2-cost reroll comp that is already stabilized and winning, AND you are not contested, you do not have to level to 6 on 3-2 if you feel like you can wait while maintaining the win streak. Wait until 3-5, hit level 6 here and you can play a “wealthy” 2-cost reroll comp. Level 7 Round Tempo Notes 3-2 special: augment or portal Special portal (Scuttle Puddle or Crab Rave - lots of gold given) OR special augment giving lots of gold OR loss streak/open forting → tempo play by pushing lvl 7 early 3-5 early early level 7, so requires a clear, justifiable reason: You will have 40g remaining even after leveling to 7 You WILL win the rest of stage 3 if you level here To establish 3-cost reroll comp comeback timing 3-6 non- standard You did not level to 7 on 3-5 because you predicted to lose, but you ended up winning, AND you will have 40g remaining even after leveling to 7. 3-7 (4-1) standard 4-cost comp standard level 7 timing (4/10 games you will level to 7 here) 4-2 (and after) screwed If you are NOT playing a 1-cost or 2-cost reroll comp and you leveled to 7 here, that means you failed your econ this game. Level 8 Round Tempo Notes 3-5 special: augment Took Birthday Present, Spoils of War III, or Going Long Prismatic augments → tempo play 4-1 early Level to 8 here if: You will have 40g remaining after leveling to 8 Your units are getting contested and you need to find them first (minimum 30g) If you do not have at least 40g after leveling to 8 but RNG fails you when rerolling your 4-costs, then no future for that game. 4-2 standard At least 40g after leveling to 8 4-3 Non- standard Not recommended to level to 8 here, unless you were hit by a truck during stage 3 (level 7) and you need to level here to “survive” 1 round 4-5 standard If you have to level to 8 here, it probably means your econ was not that good this game due to: You rerolled quite a bit during level 6/7 to stabilize board, so your HP maintenance is good but now your gold is lacking OR You just simply had bad econ Level 9 One of the most key fundamentals is stabilizing/completing your comp by level 8 and looking level 9. Determining your board strength at level 8 → units + synergy Unless you are looking to push level 10, you need to use gold EACH round to reroll for charms. (If you find cheap/weak charms at this stage in the game, don’t be afraid to reroll for “better” charms as charms appear every other reroll).